---
title: Notes | Tutorial 51
layout: post
date: 2020-10-30
parent: Tutorial Notes
tutorial_link: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=
lesson: 51
---

## prenotes

- reflection on getting to do some FI stuff a few days ago
- burnout? am I using it as an excuse? I worry I am
- project plan thing (in posts; left sidebar)
- review anything posted to curi.us?
- time management an issue - rushed and didn't finish project planning examples
  - demonstrates some overreaching

## practice

- can practice things while doing other things
  - can be more effective by connecting things to practice
  - have in mind 1/2/3 things trying to learn, fix some error
  - try to think of 1+ *particular* thing to pay attention to
    - make it productive and do aux stuff while achieving main goal too
    - mario example - active learning and practice instead of just like playing the game and getting better
  - lists existing is fine but you can't pay attention to 20 things while doing
  - need enough mental buffer left to think about the other thing to practice
    - e.g. writing post on epistemology + pay attention to using commas well

----

- deceptively simple things
  - ppl say they agree
  - but they don't do it
  - eg. #18523 ? maybe not a good example
  - citations - incentive to bloat bibliography
    - recursive problem

-----

- overly complex for small projects -- I wrote something about this
- trouble with overall project
  - mismatched sizes?
  - generalising too early?
  - 'clever' project?
  


- writing a short book on type-level programming
  - is this a potential way to learn something if there isn't good material?


- ppl don't write what they learn
  - vue typescript + plugins example
    - overhead to documenting
      - can zhs/bash do like saved + named history?


- write book thing
  - should get better at writing tech docs -- I shouldn't expect to be good now
    - practice methodology
      - shorter stuff one blogpost good
      - conflict:
        - do I feel like my goals are not well aligned to the minutia?
        - can I find better ways to connect small individual tasks to big picture goals?
        - prior commitments
          - it's good to keep commitment
          - but I don't like that

- burnout authenticity
  - July 20th -> 24th; tutorial 18 and around
- get rid of excuses
  - eg. get plenty of sleep
- For some particular things, like sleep, I usually come up with the excuse that might be legit but then make it worse
- prioritisation


- difficulty changing deeper ideas <- interconnection
- always be working on a couple of things
- t+55min

- getting stuck on the same things
  - time mgmt
  - mismatch between active projects and desired projects

-----

- common excuses / list of categories to get a bit off / 64 min

```
time management vs not time-mgmt
  what am I choosing to do?
  what does it reflect?
```

-----

- discussions; often in small chunks
  - appealing?
  - quick writing
    - benefits re autopilot
    - habits: time efficient value
      - learn not to make a mess and plan to clean later -- there is no later
- doing post by yourself is a potentially bigger chunk

-----

- learning cycle
  - get idea for something that might be an issue
  - observe, learn, understand issue
  - find solns
  - implement solns
  - master solns
  - repeat

easy way

- non-judgementally observe the smoking
- background things that aren't bottlenecks but are changing

--

- can tackling bottlenecks be overreaching? (arguably then overreaching is the bottleneck)

should expect a new thinking method to take like several months to figure out to apply and let it sink in.

- journaling re mental energy - could start sorta estimating over/under?
- 83 min
- overbook + underestimate

important to 'see it for yourself'

the 'wait 6 months' plan of learning -- I've done that a bunch. BoI is like that.

--

- CEOs & business transparency
  - criticism seen as bad -- can't show up superiors
  - maybe can't be sure you're doing good, but there are some ways to be sure something is not good

- cost accounting / local optimisation
  - note to self: don't understand this well enough; the goal 25% through or thereabouts


## quickcheck idea

yes/no property of dependent/independent variables

- testing for dependence; is it useful?

- come up with examples and brainstorm ways this idea plays into it / is significant / etc