---
title: Notes | Tutorial 52
layout: post
date: 2020-11-02
parent: Tutorial Notes
tutorial_link: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=
lesson: 52
---

## prenotes

- "why I live" post + reflections on max's microblogging

## draft

- nb: I haven't actually read it again since first draft

----

> If one's choices could matter that much, how could one possibly *know* that?

mb change to

> If one's choices can matter that much, how could one possibly *know* that they *do*?

----

- making a big impact on humanity is wrong goal -- can fail through no fault of own. unsuitable as primary life goal.

- *primality* of goal important for life; okay to have goals like popularlize PF, but not for it to be a life goal
  - be reasonably under your own control
    - changing the world can be a goal but you should be okay with failing

- Problems for *my* projects: Flux, SV -- very dependent on other ppl.

----

- atlas shrugged - holiday book?

---- 

> Their other choices--the ones they *hoped* would matter--will end up swallowed and forgotten by the passage of time.

ET: one of the main errors ppl make - self-crit and detecting mistakes early

----

> To the left is a future of hit and miss choices, erratic legacy, and the fog of cosmic uncertainty. 

----

> I used to be worried about failing. "Could it be that I will spend my life in vain pursuit of greatness and progress?" If the past half decade had been different, that might have become true. I know better, now.

ET (86 min) Need to *like the journey*. Value in the means, not just the result/ends.

> epistemic idea-cone

Vague

----

larger it is - the more the focus is on organising knowledge, and less "how do you do X"

how do you organise to avoid it being a mess (and also keep it maintainable, endurable, etc)

----

thinking of it as practice -> powering up mode
