---
title: Notes | Tutorial 27
layout: page
parent: Tutorial Notes
date: 2020-08-14
lesson: 27
---

## feedback

I feel like I am making *incredible* progress. Like I've never made before. The *feeling* is still similar to the feeling reading BoI, like the excitement of learning new ideas. But this has *reach* in a way BoI doesn't because I can *do more stuff* in the world. BoI doesn't have that sort of practical knowledge; outside Flux I can can probably count most of the times I've applied knowledge from BoI in a significant / pure-ish way. But ***this***, *this* is something else.

I feel like I'm leveling up.

## quickcheck

idea: collect ideas to ask ET about during tutorials (not necessarily first thing b/c might be distracting). they aren't urgent ideas, but are ideas that I'd want to be mostly-right about. they don't need to be perfect because I'm not prioritizing them right now, but might later so want to get off on the right foot. also implies ET doesn't spend too much effort looking for errors, just easy to see ones I can't.

### JM and MK in #tutoring 2020-08-14 (AEST)

[Discord link](https://discordapp.com/channels/304082867384745994/724819412502446091/743489088971341995)

    [1:20 AM] Max: oh wow, I just found a neat discord feature
    [1:20 AM] Max: I was going to post: 
    > s/enduring patterns/enduring patterns of language
    to indicate "search for 'enduring patterns' and replace with 'enduring patterns of language' in the thing I just said"
    [1:21 AM] Max: anyway, i pressed send and nothing happened. tried again to confirm. then I tried s/right?/right?? and it edited my last msg!
    [1:22 AM] Max: in this case I don't want the feature on by default because I generally try not to edit posts unless it's immediate and important for ambiguity or something, but in general (outside FI) that's really cool
    [1:22 AM] JustinCEO: yeah i've used the edit feature multiple times even in this conversation
    [1:22 AM] JustinCEO: for minor formatting/typo stuff
    [1:22 AM] Max: the little pencil icon?
    [1:22 AM] Max: or the s/A/B thing?
    [1:22 AM] JustinCEO: sorry the s/x/y
    [1:22 AM] Max: oh man now I feel out of the loop :stuck_out_tongue:
    [1:23 AM] Max: but super neat to find
    [1:23 AM] Max:
    > oh man now I feel out of the loop :stuck_out_tongue:
    I notice saying things like this sometimes and am unsure if there are bad social dynamics involved. I am thinking of collecting them for later analysis.
    [1:24 AM] Max: in this case thinking about qs like: "what was the point of saying that?", "should I feel OOTL?", "what am i saying by using that as my response to JM's msg?", etc
    [1:26 AM] Max: I don't feel bad or guilty just unsure. There are also questions like "how would that make JM feel?" but they're harder to answer and i'm not convinced they're good to ask or i'm asking for the right reasons (I would start reading objectivist stuff, particularly virtual of selfishness, if I was going to prioritise finding out more)

did I pick up on something worth investigating and is the direction I suggest a good one?

(note: more developments (and analysis) in [discord](https://discordapp.com/channels/304082867384745994/724819412502446091/743489088971341995))