---
title: Notes | Tutorial 47
layout: post
date: 2020-10-09 11:00
parent: Tutorial Notes
tutorial_link: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=
lesson: 47
---

## Impasse Chains

### reframing

> First, you may agree to disagree. You may agree to stop debating. You may agree it’s a hard problem.

One thing people do with some impasses is try to ~*put the idea in different words*; explain it from a different point of view.

The reason they expect that to work is something like inferential distance. They're partially acknowledging there is some prerequisite knowledge and trying to find different prereq knowledge to use.

Sometimes that can be okay, like I could explain a relationship geometrically, algebraically, and 'intuitively' (which usually means 'in terms of past experiences'). Some proofs of Pythagoras' theorem are algebraic and some are geometric -- both are still proofs.

Sometimes it's not okay, though. If I wanted to explain something complex, like a blockchain, then there aren't lots of different options for what to base that off. We'd need to talk about hashing and p2p networking and unambiguous data structures and transactions and some of the things that were invented for blockchains to work at all. *People try*, though, which leads to analogies like *a ledger in big excel spreadsheet in a dropbox folder but you can only decrease your own balance and increase someone elses by the same amount*. That analogy is *okayish for some things*, like explaining permissions and that you can see all the balances. It doesn't say anything about censorship resistance or immutability, though. The *explaining from a different point of view* idea wasn't a replacement for a good explanation, it was a compromise.

*Is that compromise ever useful?* Well evidently it's *somewhat* useful. If you're a manager, maybe you'd give someone a compromise-analogy. It'd let you delegate *specific work* to them which *you can error correct later*, before it matters. The person's *understanding* isn't really the point, though, their *productivity* is. (presumably in this case that means it's menial work.)

Maybe a compromise-analogy can help someone incrementally learn stuff. Not sure. Why not just study the proper fundamentals, then? Maybe the situation with children learning maths has some relevancy here.

Anyway, *reframing the idea* isn't a good solution b/c:

1. you can't do it indefinitely, most ppl can probably only do it like 1 or 2 times before running out of ideas; and
2. it isn't actually a solution if the original disagreement isn't resolved (i imagine mostly miscommunications get resolved this way); and
3. it doesn't work for all conversations -- maybe just teacher-student type things (also some people will react badly if you simplify stuff).

### topic preference

> And people commonly only want to discuss the original topic, but not what’s wrong with the discussion, so they basically don’t even try to argue their case about why and how the other guy is messing up the discussion.

There's a big PoV difference with philosophy vs everything else: philosophy is explicitly unbounded. if one person thinks something is related, then it becomes part of the discussion (and a sub-topic becomes whether it is related or not). if one person thinks something needs to be resolved first, then it does (even if that resolution is that it wasn't actually a dependency).

It's not like other topics where you can exclude particular things.

One problem is that faux intellectuals like to make things philosophical when it doesn't need to be, or where they don't understand enough about the actual philosophy.

### Gavin's impass chain -- tree

[https://files.fish.xk.io/2020-10-09-gavin-impasse-chain.pdf](https://files.fish.xk.io/2020-10-09-gavin-impasse-chain.pdf)
