---
title: Notes | Tutorial 35
layout: post
date: 2020-09-02 12:00
parent: Tutorial Notes
tutorial_link: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=geuRduhbnmU
lesson: 35
---

## socdyn questions


new stuff in tutorial:

* congruence - accounted for by any of the above?
  * who acts like they're congruent even when they're not?
  * who avoids incongruence? (indicates higher status)
  * to be congruent you need outward signals and language to match your internal stuff (emotions, etc). ppl catch faking with mismatches (low status) and ppl are more likely to believe you when it matches (high status)
* who's acting like they're helpful, or doing someone a favor?
* who's being helpful (putting in effort) - it's a type of compliance; subservience.
  * there's a personal social incentive against the good of the conversation; low status ppl manoeuver to make the other person more comfortable; incentive to not be rational or not take rationality seriously / rational methods
* who's showing a willingness to invest in the conversation? (lower status)
* who writes more? (putting in effort / helpful / needy)

* who's evasive when confronted about social dynamics & their behaviour?
  * sign they don't have concious control over soc.dyn.

whether something counts as "effort" isn't judged by logic, it's judged by social rules.

## conflict on analysing social dynamics 48min

ppl should be responsible for their ideas even if they didn't deliberately put it there.

if you can't criticise their behaviour how can they fix it?

ET: not very important to distinguish concious/autopilot socdyns.
it's still part of *who they are*. also low evidence (particularly text based) whether it was concious or not.

## idea: post to LW "is anyone interested in debating induction / solomonoff induction"

- tell some narrative

## flag patterns

* I think \_\_\_, but \_\_\_.
