---
layout: post
title:  "The Choice: Chapter 1"
date:   2020-06-27 19:41 +1000
---

*Copied verbatim from post to FI*

I'm planning to read The Choice and post here about it. 
I am _particularly_ looking for feedback on my method, right now.
In general (now too), I'm also looking for feedback re my _understanding_, and any discussion anyone wants re the
topics in the book.
(Oh, and stream it too, made a new channel, first one: <https://youtu.be/5zHzTKTOu8o>)

[Method, briefly: for each chapter: read it 2-3 times, make idea tree, post here, next ch; square brackets around
paragraph like this are a comment as I was writing the email.]

I think the central idea in chapter 1 of The Choice is:

One's choice of how to perceive reality (with regards to problems) is (one of?) the most important and impacting
choices of one's life. It is necessary to live a full life. In the chapter it's called the scientist's approach.

[Now that I've copy/pasted that (from notes), I think I should write more b/c it's less reasonable to expect someone to
go through my more detailed notes, but that one-and-a-bit sentences isn't detailed enough.]

Broadly, if one wants to live a full life one must make some core decisions, and particularly one decision. That is:
problems are soluble, solutions are attainable, and that one CHOOSES to devote the time to understand the problems that
come up and how to solve them. (though it's not expressed in The Choice like this, I think BoI puts the idea simply, so
use that language here.) The way to do this is the scientist's approach: we can know about and prepare for the world in
such a way that failures become opportunities to learn, and we can find that energising. Common perceptions of reality
have two problems: avoiding using brain power because we think we don't have it, problems & solutions must be super
complex, so we dont have the right tools; and an unwillingness to see reality for what it is, and applying the wrong
knowledge in search of the soln. The chapter ends with the conjecture that complex reality is actually simple, and Eli
and Efrat agree to analyse a big apparel company to figure it out, next time on The Choice.

An auxiliary point of the chapter was that problems need to be viewed and communicated objectively for other ppl to
believe they can work or care about them.

with regards to the screwdriver-screw-nail analogy, I thought the author would have been better to split this up into
two discrete problems: the complexity one and the refusal one as I did above, and it was wrong to keep them together,
or at least to use the screwdriver one to support that point.

----

You can find my notes and idea tree (which ended up being the same thing) here:
<https://drive.google.com/drive/u/0/folders/14-qdOgcfwAyEgPBY4O46Ti2Pu_t-9tTZ>
Check the outline PDF for an easily readable version (maintains tree structure).

My plan is to do the same thing for other chapters in the book. Particularly: listen/read the chapter once, casually.
The second time go through and take notes, either constructing the tree as I go or on the 3rd reading. I'll then post
my take on the central idea here, which hopefully is enough for anyone to quickly check if I'm not understanding
things; i.e. a problem with the central idea means there are bigger problems elsewhere.
