---
layout: page
title: Parsing Exercises | Part 4
parent: Parsing Exercises
date: 2020-06-30
---

1. TOC
{:toc}

# Part 4 Exercises

> For these practice sentences, first mark clauses and phrases (using curly and angle brackets), then make a short outline, then write and answer a question for each word. You may need to do research to figure them out, especially the last two.

* John pet his dog and cat with vigor.
* Seeing isn’t believing.
* I like philosophy because it involves thinking methods.
* Some people don’t love truth or honesty.
* John and Olivia enthusiastically sang their favorite song on the stage, but singing well wasn’t enough for the actors pretending to be judges.
* While you’re having a discussion, never misquote anyone.
* I think that nuclear power is safe.

## John pet his dog and cat with vigor.

`{John pet <his <dog and cat>>} <with vigor>.`

* **outline**: `{John pet <[John's] dog and cat>}` (note: replacing `dog and cat` with `pets` is a bit too ambiguous for my taste)
* **outline en-gb**: `{John patted <[John's] pets>}`
* rearranged: `{<John> <patted <with vigour>> <his <dog and cat>>}.` - 3 phrases
* what action? patting
* who did the patting? John
* what did john pat? pets
* what action did john do to his pets: patted
* who owns the pets? john
* what are his pets? dog and cat
* how did he pat them? with vigour

#### correction:

`{John pet <his <dog and cat>> <with vigor>}.`

* go for larger clauses

#### uncertainties

* is `pet his dog and cat` a verb phrase? not really b/c it doesn't take a subj and obj.
  * more obvious when rearranging, `patted with vigour` is a verb phrase
  * everything but the subject can be a verb phrase; verb + modifiers is sometimes called a verb phrase

## Seeing isn’t believing.

`{<Seeing> <[is not]> <believing>}`

* **outline**: `{<Seeing> <[is not]> <believing>}` -- just the same as the sentence w/ `[is not]`?
  * 3 phrases
* what is the action? equivalence (or lack thereof)
* how is action modified? negation: `not`
* what is the subject? seeing
* what is not equivalent to seeing? believing

## I like philosophy because it involves thinking methods.

`{<I> <like> <philosophy>} because {<it> <involves> <thinking methods>}`

* **outline**: `{I like philosophy} because {philosophy involves <methods>}`
* Who's speaking? `I`
* what are they describing doing? liking something
* what do they like? philosophy
* how do they expand on liking it? offering a reason (because)
* why

* subordinating conjunctions can be included in subordinate clause

## Some people don’t love truth or honesty.


## John and Olivia enthusiastically sang their favorite song on the stage, but singing well wasn’t enough for the actors pretending to be judges.


## While you’re having a discussion, never misquote anyone.


## I think that nuclear power is safe.
